Okay, hello, everyone. Welcome to tonight's Kahoot game. What we're gonna do is 1st, we're gonna go over, alright, we're gonna do some practice questions that will hopefully help you with the OA and when you take it, and for those, and also we're gonna do the study session.
2 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I'm gonna go over the notes that I used that are tried and true that have helped students pass.
3 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, and without further ado, we'll get started. Is there any questions before we start? No, there's NO prizes, but the prize is if you watch this live, which you four are, you should be able to pass hopefully, ok? Alright, let's do it.
4 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All right, here we go. Hardware and operating systems. All right, which the following is one of the basic components required for a computer to run? Here we go.
5 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I'll move my mouse on the way so you can see. What do you guys think? Basic components for requiring computer to run.
6 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
And once everyone answers, then it will go on to the we'll go on to the next question.
7 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Everyone got it right. Excellent. All right, let's on to next question here. All right. Good job Carl. What allows the software to execute commands? What's what allows the software to execute commands, sorry this out of the way so you can see.
8 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, here we go. I promise looking it a little harder.
9 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Excellent. Wow, I think we're gonna have like a tie store. It's all but who does it fastest I think here. Good job JL. Which cloud computing model suits a company needing an IT help desk and other services? So cloud computing model, what do you guys think?
10 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Oops, I gotta put this somewhere where it's not in the way. What do you guys think? Think of WG uses this as well.
11 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Any, you know whatever you will call tech support. Very good. Software as a service, software to service, ok? Next one. Okay, JL in the lead here. What chroming language does Apple iOS use?
12 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Now, I, if you've had me already, you know that I give the clue of the singer here, and she does use an iPhone. If you've watched one of the super Bowls that she performed in her last name, that's your big clue right there.
13 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Taylor swift, swift. Very good. All right, next. Good job JL nailing it here. What tools should you use to build a web app that works across all platforms? Do you think?
14 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Probably should have phrase that to which, which javascript's tool I should say, but what do you guys think? Very good. React.js.
15 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
We're gonna go over those, I promise. Okay, Jayl killing it. All right. Given the image below which primary network architectures can be identified? Ooh, I don't know.
16 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good.
17 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Peer to peer and client to server, ok? And we'll go over that, I promise, but when you we'll go over there in the study notes here. Good job, my son just probably guessed. What is the ability to add multiple servers to scale called?
18 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Horizontal scaling, very good. Okay, two apps each require four gigs of RAM, and the OS requires four gigs of RAM. What is the minimum total RAM required? Simple math, everybody. Just add it all together.
19 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
That's the clue for you Very good. Four plus four again plus four again is 12344 plus four plus four. So.
20 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Same right there. As you can see, you have another one application, another one, another one added together at twelve, ok? What is the primary function of the address resolution protocol? You think.
21 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good, map an IP address to the Mac address. Very good. Okay, a user needs to have a drive that's unaffected by electric magnetic interference, important, very important indeed.
22 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. It's solid state drive, and we're gonna go over that as well. Which ID is best suited for developing Java applications? Ooh, what do you guys think?
23 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
This one's a little bit more self obvious. Tell J, that J stands for Java, if you didn't know that.
24 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? Good job JL on fire here. Which protocols used for sending emails? Protocols used for sending emails.
25 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. SMTP simple mail transfer protocol.
26 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, which of the, which of these communication channels carry singless simultaneously?
27 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
And again, we're gonna go all of these terms, so you don't worry, and I give good, pretty good analogies too. Very good. Full duplex, very good.
28 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
A computer has 32 gigs of RAM, the OS uses two gigs and each application has seven gigs. What is the maximum apps running at once? So you have to run an application but it uses seven gigs. How would you figure that out, anybody?
29 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Anybody? Very good. Everyone figured this one out. So let's do the math on this, ok? So you subtract, then you have 30, then you divide it. Now, obviously you have to round down.
30 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So that way you have four gigs for each. What programming language does Android OS use? Another word for coffee here.
31 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Java! Java. Very good. All right. All right, Jay. Which motherboard supports a full size expansion slot?
32 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I actually added more to this, one too. We'll go over it.
33 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good ATX. All right. Which memories. That's sir.
34 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Memory edged onto a silicon ship. Oh, let's see.
35 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
We're just waiting on one more person. Again I will be recording this so for those who are not with us watching it, you will, it will I'll send out a recording to everyone.
36 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Including if you're a Tom's student as well. Very good. Rom excellent. JL nailing it here. Alright, where does a type two hypervisor run? Ooh, I don't know. What do you think? What do you think?
37 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Did you get it Very good on top of the host OS. JL nailing it. All right. Which type of virus does not need a host?
38 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Doesn't need a host see the answer. Very good, a computer worm.
39 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Excellent. Which, what is the operating systems life cycle stage in which only critical security updates will be supported, ok? Think of Windows ten. What does that mean? We're gonna go over this.
40 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good extended support. We'll go over that as well.
41 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Which device actually interacts with or affects the environment when it detecting attacks? Again, I'm gonna go over some little tricks that I thought of when I was doing my study session with this. So after the Kahoot game, please stick around and we'll go over all this stuff.
42 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Good. Intrusion prevention system. Okay, which device allows a user to easily transfer large files between computers using a plug and play connection?
43 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Plug and play connection. Ooh, very good. External hard drive. Which type of twister pair can transmit data at speeds up to 16 mb? Wow! Oh boy.
44 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, very good category four, didn't we? An application excuse me an organization is configuring Apache service, which tech stack will they use? I highly recommend you memorize what the acronym stands for for each one.
45 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Like lamp, mith, mean, and mern.
46 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Make sure you know what they stand for because they'll ask something something along the lines of this. So you need to know what the acronym stands for.
47 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
One more person. Very good. Lamp. Lamp. Good. What is the control unit register response for holding the address of the memory location? What is that term called?
48 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good memory address register. See if someone catch up with Tim, there's lenty more questions here. Which motherboard component managed direct data flow through signal pathways?
49 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Okay, let's see if anyone can get him. I don't know.
50 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Organization wants to support high volume live data streams, which technologies best fit?
51 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I should clarify pipeline. This technology is also used with ring doorbells, but more person.
52 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Just need one more. Yes. Kafka. Very good. An organization chooses to use MongoDB. Mongodb's best described as which type of database?
53 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Well, let's see, let's look at it here. What do you guys think? Not like Excel, right? Gotta be clever with these images here. Very good.
54 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Not, not square query document database. What is a business process as a service? The wrong one.
55 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So I had a student mentioned to me that this wasn't on there, so I put it on my guide, make sure that people know this one. Very good. So cloud subscription automates business tasks like HR and finance.
56 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
At what point does a user activity begin when you log into a website? Ooh, it might be a little tricky. Authentication is very important and we'll discuss that. I just saw something on the news today. It was very disheartening, so we'll go over that as well.
57 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
It's probably the most important thing in this course, in my opinion. Good immediately when you want user is authenticated. All right. What is an example of interpretive language?
58 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
You know they're gonna ask that, right? They're gonna give you something like this because I know that they're gonna ask what it is. What are examples of it? Of course.
59 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. P H P.
60 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
What is an example of a compiled language? They don't ask that, they're probably ask something like this. Bless you. This is also used to build video games.
61 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. C++. Alrighty. What is Cloud computing service availability measured in? Got two more left here.
62 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good nines. Alright. Which of the following topographies does not experience a complete network failure from a single point of failure, ok? So these are topographies, does not experience it. Oh, there's two more left excuse me, 36 and 37.
63 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
What do you think? Very good mesh mesh. What does Raid primarily protect against?
64 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
What do you think it perfections buddy? I think. Yourself is Sammy Jones. Okay.
65 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Very good. Dry failure. All right, that was it. All right. Congrats, Timman, I don't know how much second jail. Very good. All right. Questions comments?
66 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I'll put the chat on if I could pull that up. Questions about this? Okay, alright, let's go to now my notes here. All right, we're gonna go over everything, I promise, as I said.
67 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I can just, here we go. Okay. All right. Okay, can everyone see my screen? Alright, please feel free to put any in from anything on the chat here. I'm gonna put this up. Okay, so let's talk let's break this down.
68 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
1st things 1st, we talk about operating system and programming basics. So we have the CPU, which is the central processing unit. That is the brain of the computer. So I think of it as a human body, right? It executes the instructions, across the data, controls all the major operations of the system. That's what the brain actually does, right?
69 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Questions? Okay, then there's the operating system that executes the commands and manage the hardware and software resources. So it's like the brain that's combined with the nervous system of the computer, right? It includes device, memory, file, and process management and provides common services for the computer programs. Questions on this?
70 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Right, they're all very quiet. The application program, and this is where people get tripped up. It's software to design perform a specific task or function, ok? So when we talk about an application problem, it's to do something or that function. Microsoft Word, right, is the application program designed to create and edit format text documents.
71 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
PowerPoint is to do slide presentations.
72 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
What else? Your Firefox browser is to browse the internet. Think of it as the hands and tools of the computer. Questions on that? Okay, we mentioned this program for Apple is swift. She happens to use an iPhone. I remember zooming in once to see if that was true, so I wasn't gonna use that and I.
73 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Not to be able to do that. And for android OS it is Java.
74 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Another word for coffee. Kafka, and I want to clarify this I think I may have confused you all. It it does it has distributed event stream platform, right? So it handles that pipeline. So we mention I mentioned earlier the ring doorbell. It has that multiple streams of data. You could look through it. Netflix uses it, but it's more for the.
75 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Start pause rewind, that's Kafka technology there. Okay, and I mentioned again ring Doorbell, you can.
76 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Look at recorded events. Questions on Kafka, ok? Command line interface is a text based interface, right? Interact with the computer, ok? It can be faster, more precise, but not always.
77 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
If you're brand new to computers, the command line's not gonna be fast for you. But if you grew up with computers like myself, if you know all those commands, which I don't know them all anymore, you, you just type them out and it can be very quick. Cause remember, to do like to save, you gotta hit file save with the mouse, right?
78 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So it can be a lot faster. Questions? You're all pretty quiet. Alright, workstation operating system is the type of operating system that is optimized for power users and professional tasks, ok? Think of Windows Eleven Pro professional or Umbutu. I hope I said that right?
79 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, that's really it, you know, for fun to see what if you have a job, check what your work computer is, see what it is. It's a workstation operating system for most likely. Alright extended support is a phase on the operating system life cycle, which provides only critical updates.
80 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So for Windows ten, it reached in 14 October of last year. So during that extended support, Microsoft only does critical updates and not new features. I can give you another example back in the day when I had Windows XP, I really wanted to play halo too, and I couldn't because I had to get vista. And as we all know Vista was terrible.
81 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, another example is carplay. How many of you have a car that's older than 2014? Everyone answer? No, ok. Well, I do. And if I put CarPlay in, they're not gonna support that. But if I had a recall, like for seatbelts or.
82 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Airbags or whatever the engine, they have to do it by law so I don't get hurt, killed, God forbid, right? So that's, that's the whole purpose of extended support. Questions on that?
83 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? Breakpoint is a debugging tool that pauses the program execution. Visualbasic does this. A lot of the editors do it. It's like pausing movie. How many of you when you were like really young, five or six, and you want to watch those scary movies, but you were like, didn't want to get scared?
84 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
See you fast forward, right? You can check to see what why why what's the scary part? You could do that with breakpoints. See why it's breaking the code, ok? Although probably with AI now you probably just use that say where did the, why did the code break?
85 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All right, Hadoop is an open source framework designed for storing and processing large amounts of data. Primarily it's it's filed just a file system for storage and map reduced for processing. Think of this as like an Amazon where they have a warehouse and you have all these workers and they're sorting all these shipments. I'm sure.
86 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
That I mean Amazon's doing that. So the boxes are the data. Believe it or not, WG uses Hadoop. I mean, how else do we handle all that data? And believe it or not, WG handles a lot of data.
87 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All right. Mongodb is a non sql's query document database is stored in data that's flexible and binary JSON, so by sun, like documents instead of using tables and rows. It's a schema of flexible and unlike related data that used to fixed tables.
88 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, make sure you know that mongo to be is part of the mern, mive and mean tech stack. We'll go over that as we keep going here. Interpretive language, interpreted language, right? Line by line, ok? Think of this as a live instruction. How many of you cook or watch TikTok videos of people cooking step by step videos of cooking?
89 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Well, that's what basic interpreter language is. You know, you go line by line, ok? Easy to be bug and usually store in the compiled languages. So as I said, I think, I don't know, but I would pay attention to this that they may ask examples Python, JavaScript, Ruby, PHP, and Perl are the ones that I think that.
90 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Maybe on there, I don't know. Again, I don't know what's on the LA, but I go by your feedback and I do appreciate all of you who do give me feedback.
91 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? All right. Compiled language converts a machine code before execution using compiler, a compiled program that runs directly on the CPU. Think of it as building a house before living in it, ok? Again, know the examples of compiled languages. C C++ rust and go.
92 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? Questions about anything we went over so far? Please type in the chat if you do, ok? Web development. All right, there are four types of JavaScript here. React JS is a JavaScript library used to build user interface especially single page applications. That.
93 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Is a very flexible JavaScript library, ok? You can build it however you want. So I try to give you examples for those of you who never use JavaScript, ok? Then we have view view e JavaScript.
94 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, it's a progressive JavaScript, it's a little bit more strict it's when you buy lego set at the store, here's how to build it, ok? Then we have AngularJS, which reaches end of life of of 2021. So now we have the angular. Those of you who have D two 80.
95 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, that course uses Angular, ok? And it's like giving you a full lego set, you have to file very strict. Then this is very important. Node.js Unlike the other three javascripts, this is primarily back end.
96 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Build on a chrome V eight engine here, alright? So I want you to be aware of that, that it is front end, but it's primarily back end, ok? And the react text, I forgot to mention this react.JS is part of the Mern text MVRN, view is part of the mid me VN.
97 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Angular, this one right here, mean tech stack, and then Node.JS is part of mean me mean say that ten times fast. All right. Python interpretive language used for back end. Visual basic script. I had students ask me all the time, you know, I didn't know who developed it and all this other stuff.
98 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Visual basic script, visual studio code, they're all different. Visual basic script is a scripting language developed by Microsoft and interacts with the which is a component object model. And we'll go over the other two later in the guide here. HTML is used to build static websites and structure the content. Those are the nounds of the web development world.
99 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
*** is the is used for formatting websites. That is the adjectives of the of the website world. And then there's JavaScript which are the verbs.
100 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
That's how I look at it. I actually shouldn't take all the credit. I learned that from a Udemy course, which I thought was a great analogy. Tailwind is the 1st CSS framework designed for selling web apps. Variable is a storage location that it holds the value. It could be changed and retrieved, change and retrieve during program execution. So.
101 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
If you have like you've done, I'm sure a lot of you have done Algebra.
102 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
X equals five, y equals six, what is X plus five or X plus y rather, that's similar, but in programming we do it with functions, ok? Nome g NO M E is an example of a graphic user an interface shell that's provided in Linux operating system, ok? The other thing they may ask about Linux because I know a lot of us don't know Linux. They.
103 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Create delete files and create terminal program. Those are the two things I would make sure you know.
104 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Create process, creates a new process of primary federal allowing new programs to launch how many of you have started a new job? Well, you have some kind of onboarding, right? You bring someone in the system to give them a role and start a new process. It's like an onboarding thing, ok? Those of you who use Blackboard or Canvas LMS, they integrate these.
105 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Api's so that way you don't have to log in every single time, which is kind of nice. Alright, this is probably the most pinnicle in my opinion. The authentication, so when you log in, you're immediately authenticated, alright? And then there's some things that you should know here. Authentication factors and the groups.
106 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Something you know, that's when they ask you for different answers, right? So if you use a computer that's not your own, it's something you know. If it's a token or your phone, it's something you have and it's, if it's biometrics, it's something you, you are, ok? Now.
107 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I just saw an article today. Unfortunately a woman, she was unfortunately a victim of AI. Again, either you don't answer the phone or you just ask that person what's the password? I promise you it will work, ok? There is NO reason why you should give out your secret family.
108 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
The code password, you should establish that with you and your loved ones. I cannot tell you how imperative that is, ok? AI is getting more and more advanced. So if you think that person on the other end is not really who they say they are.
109 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Make sure you have a password between you and that loved one. It will save you, I promise you. All right? When I was a kid, my mom had done that with me and she said unless you don't go in the car with anyone else needs the car pool unless they know the family code password. And even if you don't have one now, just say, what's the password?
110 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I promise you that will work. Guaranteed. Okay, questions on authentication. If nothing else, if when you pass this course and I hope you all do remember that. Okay, I feel bad when I see people in the news get tricked by AI like that. Alright memory types. We got Rom and Ram.
111 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All right, you need to know these characteristics. ROM, read only, right? Non volatile. I want you to think of a CD ROM here. For those of you who are born in the eighties and nineties, you probably know what I'm talking about. Now we don't use them anymore, but ROM, non volatile retains data with powered off, basically like a CD, right? Can't be modified or difficult to modify.
112 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Edged onto a silicon ship and commonly used for firmware, ok? Then we have RAM, random access memory. It is volatile, ok? You lose the data used by the computer is temporary temporary while it's working and then use for active processing currently running of programs. Well.
113 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I mean, that's what we use to run these programs. I mentioned the calculations in the Kahoot. All you gotta do is add them. They say what application one, application two, and then the operating system, you just add them together. For, if they're saying for an instance, when they have like two applications, you take the total, you minus the op.
114 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
System and you divide by whatever it is. If there's seven gigs, you divide it by seven and then you'll know how many you need for each application.
115 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Sodam is a memory module used on laptops and other small devices. Small outlined dual in memory module, that's what the MM stands for. Memory address register and memory data register. Memory address reg memory address register is the easiest way is the address the memory location. Address location.
116 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Easiest way to remember that. Now if it's data register, I want you to think of someone like at an airport and they're like trying to scan your stuff in. That's basically what the data register is, right? It acts like a buffer between the main, the processor and the main memory, the buffer being, let's say the flight attendant or not flight attendant, the person who checks you at the gate.
117 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, think of that. Questions, ok? Data movement is the process of transferring data from between locations, whether CPU memory, input output occurs via buses and system interface. Alright, any questions so far on this?
118 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Alright, let's talk about, storage devices. So we have solid state drives and a hard disk drive, ok? Solid state is NO moving parts, faster, more durable energy efficient.
119 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Unaffected by electric manic interference because there's NO movie parts. Fast read and write and uses flash memory. Questions on that? You need to know the terms in order to get the situational questions right, ok? Hard disk drive. Spinning disks, moving parts slower.
120 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
The spinning disks are platters more affordable, which is cost effective, ideal for storing massive amount of data. Situations with slower performance successful and performance is limited by mechanical movement. Questions on that? So if I ask you something about like 16 tb of data that probably use a hard disk drive. To be honest with you.
121 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Obviously solid state drives do have larger capacities, but for the test purposes, make sure you know about storing ideal mass amount of data. Sides, if you work, you all know that you probably use some kind of cloud drives, ok? Alright, day two.
122 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Day two. Motherboards and chips. ATX, a full size of motherboard designed for high expandability, meaning ITX is a small form factor typically seven 6.7 by 6.7. Bus architecture set of pathways that carry the data and sales between CPU RAM and C And allows the CPU to communicate with the devices. Think of this as.
123 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
The highway, and you got this highway of data all around. Then we have the chip set, which is the motherboard component that manages data flow throughout the sync the pathways. So let's say the chip set is that traffic controller, the traffic lights.
124 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
That direct the traffic. That's what the chip set is, ok? North Bridge Chip and South Bridge chip. North Bridge is the motherboard component primarily responsible for high speed communication and CPU RAM and GPU, ok? In those of you who live up north.
125 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
You probably are more likely to have fast transit transportation systems that exist. Those of you who live in the south, like myself, we have roads, right? Local roads or slow lower speeds, handles everyday traffic. So that's lower peripherals, UPSB ports and audio.
126 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, raid, ok, as we mentioned, it combines multiple dri data multiple drives. It's not a backup. It protects against data failure, ok? The primary purpose is to prove reliability, ok?
127 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Common raid levels, ok? Striping, bearing, striping with party, striping with dual party protected, and then raid ten, raid one plus raid zero, you gotta mirror it, then you gotta stripe it. Make sure you know those.
128 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? Virtual machines. How many of you have a Mac? Anybody? Okay. Well, ok, good. So if you have a Mac that you're probably familiar with this. Not everything runs in a Mac. I love my Mac, but let's face it. Not everything does. Okay, so you can emulate it.
129 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Right, with a physical computer on top of your current machine, ok? It has a virtual sandbox designed to test those applications and then it has a test environment that simulates those real word productions. Think of a preview mode for a website. Then we have the components of that virtual machine.
130 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, we have the hypervisor, think of your supervisor. Management runs the virtual machine. What you really need to know for these, you gotta know these. Type one runs directly on the host hardware. Type two runs on top of the host hardware. Make sure you know this. Anyone who's taken the exam more than once knows that is probably most likely asked.
131 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay?
132 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Parallel desktop, ok? Make sure you don't have to really know that, but it's for Mac. Okay, but they're probably gonna ask examples of this containers. They're lightweight, they're portable, they share the the host. It's part of an operating system as I look at it. Faster. The examples, Docker and Kubernetes, again, make sure you know examples of things.
133 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Containers, Docker and Kubernetes. I can't stress that enough because again, they're probably gonna ask those type of questions. At least that's what students have told me.
134 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, alright networking, for those of you who haven't taken a networking course, this might be all new to you, those who have, this might be a refresher. Router connects to different networks and directs the data between them. Typically a local network and the internet. Switch connects with same network, forwards it to the MAC address usually operates in a layer two.
135 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Hub basic network device that broadcast data, all devices on a network segment and operates on a layer one, which is lots of obsolete. Firewall monitors and controls in outgoing traffic based on the predetermined security rules. Ethernet chart, make sure you know this. This is also in WG Connect.
136 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
One through eight, I would know these because you never know which one they're gonna ask. Fiber optic line supports very high speeds, up to one gig, one gig all the way up to a hundred plus gigs. Wow. That's crazy? Twisted pair, use connect devices to a network typically through a switching. It supports to use up to 10 gb.
137 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Protocol, a set of rules that define how data is formatted transmitted received within the network. SMTP, a protocol used for sending email, make sure you know that one. TCP, make sure you know this. It establishes a reliable data delivered by a connection oriented session between two devices.
138 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Full duplex travels both directions like a phone call. Half duplex, both directions, but only one direction at a time. I had to revise this so I could I think I confused people, like a walkie talkie, ok? Questions on that? Alright, we.
139 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All this on the Kahoot but this is peer to peer, this is client to server. So peer to peer.
140 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
How many of you remember the file sharing days in the 2000s? I did. So peer to peer, it's decentralized, NO dedicated server. So everything's a lot faster. As you can see, everybody's sharing stuff, instantaneous downloads, that was what people did. It wasn't legal, but that's what people did. And then client to server has a centralized server down.
141 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
With resources to one site. So have you ever.
142 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Those of you who may have watched shark Tank I'm just using this example and you're watching it live and you want to get this product, but everybody millions and millions and millions of people are bombarding the site. It usually goes down because when you go to one location, it may not be able to handle web traffic, right?
143 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I mean, let's face it, not everyone that has an expensive server like Google and the rest of them, right? So these five computers are going here, so it probably won't go down, but these people are sharing all their stuff together, so it goes really fast. Again, peer to peer client to server. Any questions on that?
144 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
All right, ARP, which is address res resolution protocol maps a known IP address to the corresponding media address, access control excuse me, controller address operates with a loc local network land. Then we have intrusion prevention system and detection system.
145 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So I love the analogy here, but it's an active system because it, so because it automatically blocks prevents attacks. It's raining outside. You use an umbrella to prevent from getting wet, very simple. Detection is passive, just detects things but doesn't intervene. It's raining outside, you notice it but you don't do anything about it. You just get wet. That's detection.
146 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Right? Unified threat management provides multi point protection through security here. VPN virtual private network, those of you who travel internationally, I don't know if anyone does, you would use this or your job may or ask you to safely remote into private networks. They're usually encryption. People like to have their privacy, most.
147 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
People and then they would use this and it gives you like a fake address, if you will.
148 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Network topographies plus all devices are connected to a single shared cable, inexpensive easy install, difficult to reconfigure and troubleshoot. Single point of failure, if a main cable fails, the entire network goes down. Make sure you know these bullet points. Ring topographies.
149 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Each device connects to exactly two other forming a loop, close in one direction, inexpensive and relatively simple, point of failure, again, if it breaks the ring, it interrupts the entire network unless redundancy is built in. Dark topography, it's also nickname hub and spoke. Make sure you know that. All devices connect to the.
150 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Device, all communications pass to the central device, easy to install and manage.
151 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
If one device or cable fails, then only that device is affected, ok? Make sure you know that as well. Any questions about that? But if the central device fails, the entire network goes down, so be careful how they phrase it on the test. Mesh topography.
152 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Devices are interconnected with multi multiple paths between them, high redundancy, data can reroute common in Wi-Fi and if again one failure does not take out the whole network. So if one goes down, the whole thing doesn't go down. That's why I asked that on the on my Kahoot rather. Any questions so far? Text editors, lightweight, create and edit plaintif.
153 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Syntax, line numbering, basic coding, all that stuff. We have notepad plus plus, sublime text, Atom, Visual Studio code. Be very, very careful. It's visual studio code. That's a text editor. Idea.
154 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Is Visual studio. I can't tell you how many people mix that up. Text editor is visual studio code. The code is for text editing. That's how I remember it. Okay, these are the four I would know for a text editor. Idea is a text editor on steroids because you could do compiler interpreter, that's how I I make that silly joke with that.
155 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
How to remember it. Okay, it does a lot more things. Pycharm is for Python. Visual Studio is for C# C++ and visual basic. Intelligj is for Java Coatland, and then Eclipse is for Java C++ the PHP. Questions on that?
156 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Make sure you know the examples for text editor and IDE and please be careful of these two. Don't mix them up. Cloud computing models, the service availability is measured in nines, ok? Software as a service, every job that you apply to.
157 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
We'll use this 90, a hundred percent of the time. That's a guarantee. Google workspace, Doc sheets, Dropbox Salesforce Zoom WG uses it. We all use it. Subscription based pricing, ok? Help desk, pretty self evident. Business process of service.
158 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
If they have HR and finance, what do they use ADP, Zendesk and workday? How many of you use Workday or ADP? It's like the most that's like the two top things like Microsoft and Amazon, right? Okay, HR finance, customer service. Then we have infrastructure service, the most famous one of all Amazon Web Services. I don't even know Microsoft had it.
159 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
They have Microsoft Azure, and then they have google. Google has one as well, but Amazon is the most prevalent one here, ok? Virtualization, page your goal model. Then we have desktop as a service, ok? Allows remote desk work, Amazon workspaces, Microsoft Azure virtual desktops, Citrus, Citrix virtual.
160 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So app desktop remote remote work, telecommunicating. Then we have platform as a service.
161 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Platform as a service, ok? This would be, let's see for developers to build to test and deploy, right? Automatic infrastructure supports various programming language. Then we have our tech stacks here.
162 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay? Mern, make sure you know the acronym. Mongodb, express js react.js, and node. You'll notice that all of them are similar except for the 3rd letter. You'll see that, ok? Then we have miv, which is similar to mean.
163 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I'm gonna be expressed view Node.js. The V is view. Then remember, myth is similar to mean and mean is similar to myth, ok? Mean is gonna be expressed angular. Node.js in there, just angular, node.js, ok? And then lamp is completely different. Linux.
164 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Apache MYSQL and PHP. Be very careful, make sure you know what these acronyms stand for, ok? Memorize, study however you want, ok? Malware types, last thing. So I made a little chart here. It's just easier. Virus, ok? Malicious code that attaches it, requires a host, and there's an example.
165 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Brain and Michael Angelo, user has to click on it. A worm, however, doesn't need a host.
166 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Itself replicates. Make sure you know that, difference between a warm and a virus. Trojan horse, malicious software disguise as legitimate software, ok? So basically it's like a Halloween costume. Tricks the user installing it, downloads fake software, that's a Trojan horse. Ransomware. Yes, it encrypts the files yes.
167 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Payment, but it changes the file extension which people often neglect, ok?
168 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
And it spreads by fishing downloads. Root kit, the malicious, it's malware designed to hide itself, ok? Be very important here. The Sony root kit virus is the one that it got me. How many of you have heard of the Sony root kid virus by chance?
169 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, that definitely shows my age here. In 2005, yeah, about 21 years ago, as of day of this recording, I, my dad wanted the Neal Diamond CD and for whatever reason Sony must have published that CVD or whatever CD rather, and at the time there was NO way to put.
170 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Stuff on ifpods. My mom wanted a copy of the CD because, you know, I bought the CD I should be able to do what I want with it. Sony got, Sony knew that people would rip CDs in order to upload MP threes to the file sharing program such as Kaza and Naster and what is it, Groxter and all those other ones I think. And so, so.
171 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
I only thought they could sue or not sue. It's only thought they could basically put a virus in to stop people from doing it. Well, that obviously backfired because the courts argued whatever you buy a CD you could do whatever you want with it. But it didn't matter, my CD ROM was disabled. Like I couldn't inject the CD out. I had a form on my computer and the rest is history.
172 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
But that was the only way of the time that people could upload stuff to their iPod. So that's the Sony room kit virus, ok? Then we have the stealth virus that it's So rootkit, I should paraphrase I should clarify, is malware.
173 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
So the stealth virus hides itself from being detected. That's the stealth virus. The room kit is more malware, if you will, alright? And it conceals itself, ok? And again, user opens it. This wasn't really installed, ok? Then we have spyware and key loggers, records every keystroke, tracks your data, ok?
174 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
People put, you see some random USB in your computer, it's probably a key logger and the polymorphic virus that changes its code, think of an expan in the mysteque character. It shapeshifts, you don't know what what's going on and it avoids detection.
175 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Okay, and that is everything in my guide. If you basically go over all this, you should be fine, I hope. If you are on a second attempt alright, so people usually ask this question. If you're on a 1st attempt, ok?
176 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
And you do not pass, I need to meet with you. Of course, I made an exception with this cohort, but the reason is I want to make sure that A, you watched my video and went over the stuff and B to see what went wrong, ok? If you're on a second attempt and don't pass that, you have to meet with me three times. 3rd attempts are a big deal.
177 "PatJohn Ashkin" (1063281152)
Yes, Carl I will. I'm going once I'm done actually I'm done with this recording so I can stop it now. 1 s, stop.